Hansel minutes.com Hansel minutes, a
weekly discussion with web developer
and technologists. Scott Hanselman hosted
by Carl Franklin. This is Lawrence Ryan
announcing show number one 67.
Recorded live Friday, June 19th, 2009. Support
for Hansel minutes is provided
by teller rad controls, the
most comprehensive suite of components
for windows forms and asp.net
web applications online at www
dot  dot com and
by.net developers journal, the world's
leading that developer magazine online
at www dot  dot
com. You miss episode, Scott
talks convention over configuration with
Jeremy Miller. Hi, this is Scott
Hanselman and this is another
episode of Hansel minutes and
I'm here in Norway still.
And I'm hanging out with
Jeremy Miller, the shade tree developer,
and also the author of
structure map. Thanks for coming
up here and talking to
me today. Thanks for having
me. So we've got a
lot of really cool talks
here in Norway, and you
had a talk on convention
over configuration, and I knew
we needed to talk about
that. So we hear convention
over configuration basically everywhere. That's
not in the.net space. And
we've only recently started hearing
about it within the context
of asp.net MVC, which in
fact borrows from a lot
of places that aren't in
the typical.net space.net developers are
used to a lot of
angle brackets and config files
that go on for days.
I know that for a
while, structure map had a
lot of configuration involved in
it recently that's changed. So
you're getting into this convention
thing as well. Oh, absolutely.
And it's definitely, it is
definitely a case of Ruby
on rails MV, really. I
think it just took us
a couple years to realize
that we could do it
ourselves. It's just that it
manifests itself very differently when
we do it in.net development.
Okay. And why is that?
Well, we're statically typed. We
can't do a lot of
this dynamic property generation with
meta programming. They can in
Ruby, but we have all
these other tools. We have
the typing system we can
take advantage of, of open
generic, generic declarations. There's there's
a lot of rich type
metadata we can get at
that we're already doing. That's
creating information about our system,
that we were then recreating
inside of explicit configuration, whether
it be an angle bracket
hell or just through programmatic
configuration instead, why not just
scan the information that's already
in the type system and
use that to wire things
up. Okay. Now, is this
just a, when I think
of configuration, I think of
what assembly type I should
load my connection strings, maybe
a directory location for something.
Know what kinds of things
that were typically configuration can
be replaced with convention? How,
how pieces wire up, I
think the best, the easiest
example to go at is
thinking about configuring object, relational
mapping. Okay. In version of
controls. Good to, well, let's
talk, talk about ORM mapping.
Alright. Three years ago, when
we were using in hibernate,
you might've been using the
active record attributes for us.
We were using an XML
file. We were specifying a
lot of facts, a class
maps to a table that
probably has the same name,
but I still have to
say class name and table
name I'm mapping columns. I'm
specifying what the primary key
of the object is. Even
though it's, you can find
this information in the database,
but I still had to
specify it in, in hibernate
mappings, how the identifier was
created. Is it controlled by
the database? Is it controlled
by classes? That's a lot
of explicit stuff that I
have to do. So you're
saying something simple, like, you
know, public class customer is
from the customer's table. That
was still being, that was
being repeated in some configuration.
And there's also the pluralization
of that. Yes. If you
want to do the pluralization,
I don't know if you
do that. Is that a
religious argument? I don't know.
I don't bother with, I
remember seeing a David Heinemeier,
Hansson give a talk about
how awesome, you know, Ruby
and rails was and how
the pluralization actually had a
specific thing in case you
had a table called octopus
and a collection that would
be octopi. And he was
really proud of that. I
think because you never know
when you might have a
table called octopus. I think
that's really cool, But I
think that's a lot like
going back to the VB
days when we argued about
two spaces or four spaces
for invention, but, but a
consistent convention and we have
these conventions in our code
all the time, or we
just do things the default
way. So why not instead
let the, let the, or
Mim mapper infer from the
shape of the object, the
way the mappings work by
default. And I should, at
this point, I should only
have to override the things
that deviate from this, this
convention. Okay. Okay. So only
exceptional cases would get any
configuration information at all. Does
that mean that in the,
in a typical case and
the 80% case you wouldn't
require any configuration at all,
If you're following your, your
standards and your conventions? Yes.
Okay. So is this something
that is only in an
hibernate in ORMs or is
this something that, how would
I start applying these to
my applications? Well, so the
RM is a big deal,
even in that's a big
deal by itself in version
of control containers, we do
the same thing. You mentioned
MVC development, right? MVC out
of the box, your URLs
that you have the application
route. And then the next
argument is a controller name.
That's fine. The controllers by
just a convention or an
idiom, we would name them
home controller, report controllers, something
controller the URL would be
report home slash something to
the action, right? So a
lot of us are using
inversion of control tools to
host the controllers. And you
just go to the IOC
tool and say, give me
the controller for this name.
We have that naming convention.
Let's just let the controller
scan over the type center
assembly and know that home
controller is registered as lowercase
home. That's a convention, it's
a naming convention we can
take advantage of. So as
I start to add new
things to the system, I
can add a new controller,
code it up, unit, test
it, but I don't have
to worry about telling the
container or, or the MVC
that, Hey, this new thing
exists. It's already there and
available and accessible through a
URL. Okay. I'm trying to
think of what else we
could expand this to. I
mean, I've got, trying to
think of other kinds of
configuration information that I've got.
I know that you could
probably take it to a
really dramatic lengths. Like I
know that I've had configuration
for development for staging and
production. I suppose if I
wanted to take convention over
configuration to do, as far
as I could, I could
even name my systems, my
computer names a certain way.
Well, I mean, that's supposed
to be a bad, bad
practice, right? Isn't that supposed
to make it your system
easy to hack? I don't
know. Well, so maybe, maybe
some of the other things
I can think of. I
know there are people that
are experimenting with the creation
of UIs. I think one
of the, as we build
a lot of these credit
screens, we're using text boxes.
We're using drop-downs the drop
downs have to be filled
from somehow, but probably doing
these things very consistently. For
sure. Anytime I have a
date field that's editable on
the screen, I want it
to show up with this
particular day control. So something
I'm seeing, a lot of
people experiment with is just
simply expressing. I want the
input element for this object
or this property, right? And
the conventions will take over
and say, well, look, it's
a string field. I'm going
to use the text box,
but it's also decorated with
some kind of validation attribute
that says it can only
be a hundred long. So
I'm going to set, I'm
also going to come back
and set the maximum length
of the text box. And
look, it says that it's
a required field. Somehow I
can tie into validation and
I know it's a required
field. So maybe my designers
want all required input elements
to be colored pale blue
or no, what if they
want a red asterisk? That's
the kind of coding that
I don't really want to
have to spend a lot
of time on. I just
want it to happen. Right?
We can set up convention
or really just setting up,
not necessarily a convention, but
a policy that this is
the way it always is.
I like that the convention
is one as is, is
a good word. But policy,
I think is a really,
you know, all we need
to do is get the
team of us, whether it
be five of us or
a hundred of us to
just agree. And I think
that in my experience on
developing for the web CSS,
people and designers are like
the first people to get
this convention over configuration, right?
To just say, you know,
this text box has a
class of date. Then all
these validators happen for free.
And all of this look
and feel happens for free.
It just, just works. That
can be pushed down farther
and farther and farther. Actually
one of the other applications,
not just asp.net MVC, but
asp.net dynamic data was another
app that no configuration at
all. You know, one line
to say the database is
over there and everything else
was completely conventional. If there
was a Boolean type and
you use Boolean dot ASC
X, and it's interesting, cause
it freaks it freaks.net developers
out because since 2002, everything
has been configurable. The location
of a file, the name
of a file, the extension,
all of it has had
some angle brackets, somewhere buried
that could be overridden and
how to tell them that
we'll know just by the
virtue that this thing was
named this way, it's just
going to work there. Well,
You bring up a really
good point. It is the
potential problem with it is,
is it's black magic. There's
no explicit code that you
can look at. That's going
to tell you exactly what's
going to happen. So there's
a couple ways you can
beat the problem. And the
first is kind of a
team-wide social contract. These are
our conventions. You have to
have the entire team understanding
and agreeing to follow these
conventions. That's step number one,
step. Number two is you
probably need to think about
some, some diagnostics take the,
take the IOC example. What's
in my container. I make
up these conventions, the controller
configuration. I use the, I,
I, something I, something is
implemented by something to automatically
wire something to ice, something
For those listeners that don't
speak English. That, that whole
sentence may have been a
little bit confusing, but you're
saying that by virtue of
the fact that I have
an I person interface and
I, I might have a
person class, I can glean
that just because I'm putting
I in front of my
interface. Yeah. So that's Be
a little bit scary. Now
you're in, you're letting the
program itself in for what
it's supposed to do, right.
You're going to need to
troubleshoot and understand what what's
my convention coming up with.
You can beat that by
creating some diagnostics in our
case, like the controller example,
let's make sure we have
an easy report that can
tell us what controllers does
the IOC container think it
has and under what name
as a beginning to, Okay.
So I could check disk
for your app to just
go and say, all right,
well just let me know
all the different possibilities and
dump it out and look
at it and say, does
this look correct? Exactly. Okay.
You know, there's other things
I've seen that this may
be a silly example, but
it actually was useful to
me. I was working at
a large company recently as
a, kind of, as a
consultant. I can't say what
it is, but let's just
say that they were doing
cars and we needed some
graphics and there's all these
different car manufacturers out there.
And we, we figured out
just by poking around on
their website, that they had
like images.fool.com/, and I could
say Ford dot PNG, and
I get the Ford logo.
And we were doing this
demo for the vice president.
So it was really just
proof of concept code, but
we knew that putting some
graphics in would kind of,
you know, sex it up
a little bit. And they
said, Oh, put the logo
for the car company here.
And we said, Oh, wait
a second. They have an
image server. Right. Let's see
what happens to be put
in forward Chevy, Audi, Fiat.
And, Oh look, they do
have they've come up with
a very basic invention. It
was simple, but I was
worried legitimately worried because I've
had this happen before that
I was going to have
to go to a database
somewhere and get the actual
URL for this image. And
by virtue of the fact
that this company had done
this very simple and common
sense, although that's the thing
about common sense. It's not
that common a thing we
were able to just in
a, in a 30 seconds
of a little bit of
extra coding put in some
graphics that made the demo
just a little fraction of
a percent easier. So image
past CSS, naming scripts, all
these things can make life
a lot easier. Definitely. And
that's, that's a great example
of the value of this
kind of thing. A lot
of these things we're talking
about, they're small things, but
they're the small things that
we do over and over
and over again, by making
it the less friction to
make a change or an
addition to the system, it
makes us easier of course,
to extend the system. But
it also makes it easier
for us to iterate to
the system and take the
example of a user interface.
You come up with an
idea of how you think
it should work. You show
it to the user and
you find out that you
were completely wrong, right? You
need to change it by
having less machinery to change
those images on those page
pages. Maybe you could iterate
faster and take advantage of
the feedback that you got
and come out with a
better product. Yeah, absolutely. Hi,
this is Scott Hanselman with
a word from our sponsor.
Do you know how to
build web 2.0 Ajax applications
with web 1.0 components? You
really can't. If you want
to do the next generation
web applications you'll need next
generation components. Just like the
ones that our friends at
Telerik have got their rad
controls for ESPN at Ajax.
It's a huge pack of
web controls built on top
of asp.net, Ajax, that lab
previously impossible performance interactivity to
your next project. The new
controls mirror, the Ajax API
from asp.net. So development is
really straightforward. The client scripts
are shared. So loading time
is not a problem. If
you just set a couple
of properties and you'll be
able to automatically bind a
web services for a really
efficient operation, the new rad
editor from ESPN Ajax, Telerik
loads up to four times
faster than before. And the
new rad grid handles thousands
of records and just milliseconds,
but as always, it's best
to try for yourself. So
you can visit  dot
com slash ASP, net Ajax,
and download a trial. Thanks
a lot. What are some
other examples that you gave
in your talk about convention
over configuration and what was
the general gist of what
you're trying to get across
to the attendees? The general
just it's it's a meme.
I see a lot more
often. Now, the idea of
essence versus ceremony, essence being
what your business partners want
you to deliver and ceremony
being all the hoops, the
developer type hoops. We have
to jump through type declarations,
XML files, configuration registry, settings,
stuff. That's pure overhead. All
we're trying to do is
to create more essence with
less ceremony in the talk.
I talked about inversion of
control container configuration. We talked
a lot about sensible defaults,
sensible defaults. Sure. So when
I'm building a database and
the object model that is
persistent, this database, I can
identify things in several different
ways. I can create ID
so I can use quids.
I could use composite keys.
I could use natural keys,
but instead let's say that
we start a sensible default
that every single entity is
simply identified by a numeric
ID field. Okay? Sure. Now
that I say that every
single object, every domain entity
is created this way, I
can start to share policies
about the way that it's
persisted, which also allows me
to make some assumptions in
the, my infrastructure. The assuming
that every entity can be
treated the same way as
far as locating it, saving
it, validating it, that enables
to us to share and
reuse a lot of infrastructure
between things like crud screens
and reporting screens. And it's
a great kind of opportunity
to shrink down the size
of your code base, looking
at it from another way,
something you'll hear a lot
from the Ruby guys. They
talk about the idea of
opinionated software and this, this
kind of frustrates some people,
but it's the idea that
we can make things easier
by taking away choice from
the developers, that the system
really expects things to be
in a certain way. And
if you'll just do them
this way, the infrastructure will
let it flow easier. So
you're going to increase productivity
if you can release a
little bit of control. Exactly.
Okay. No, the problem and
the downside, I know I've
heard from heard from the
NVC team. The feedback on
rails is that the, the
conventions are baked in and
heal and unflexible. I think
the lesson that we've, we've
learned from it, and I've
seen it in projects like
fluid and hibernate and FUBU,
NBC is actually giving you
the ability to create your
own conventions and policies so
that a team can customize
the naming conventions for, for
their database mappings or how
controls are rendered on the
screen. So you're not locked
into whatever convention I happen
to like, But if we
take it, so we take
this idea forward five years,
10 years, where every piece
of software has opinionated software,
does that mean that there's
even more syntax and more
obscurity to the point where
every single framework is its
own little DSL that I'm
going to have to understand?
Cause I I've written rails
code and I'm finding it.
I always, I always have
found it difficult to, to
be an expert because to
be an expert is also
to be an expert in
trivia maybe is not the
right word, but in, in
the tricks is, you know,
is that really the case
in every system or, I
mean, What you described as
a definite downside to the
technique, but so taking the
example of all these DSLs,
these little languages I have
to learn DSLs or domain
specific languages for the listeners.
Yeah. I think that's, I
think that concern is a
little bit of a red
herring because every time I
pick up a framework or
a new tool, I have
to learn a completely new
kind of API, which even
though it's in C sharp
or vb.net, it's it may
be speaking Greek. Okay. The
DSL idea is an attempt
at creating a better API,
a more, an API that
allows you to express the
essence of what you're trying
to do without jumping through
quite so many XML angle
bracket hoops to get there,
whether you succeed or not
in that DSL depends on
a lot of factors, but
that's the definite goal. I
know that you've been experimenting
a lot lately taking what
would have been, you know,
10, 20, 30 lines of
angle brackets inside of an
XML file and turning it
into a, what they call
a, what they're calling a
fluent interface, which almost is
a, an English sentence, which
is, you know, methods and
objects strung together all into
one long kind of line.
And you've done this recently,
I think with both structure
map and you've been using
fluent and hibernate, is that
right? Both fluid and hybrid
instruction map, maybe a quick
example I can give you
are, I should say the
purpose of what I'm trying
to do is to gather
things that today, maybe a
lot of related pieces, but
they're spread out over either
the code base, big XML
files. And I'm trying to
compress that content and the
declaration of intent in a,
in a smaller area, reducing
the surface area, take the
example in WPF of creating
a keyboard shortcuts, right? You
have a XAML node somewhere
that defines a bunch of
commands and you give the
command a key name. It's
pointed to a class who,
who knows where it's at
at another place, maybe in
the same XAML file. Maybe
not. You're creating an entirely
different set of XAML nodes
to define that as a
key stroke control one control,
two calls this command by
name, right? It's all kind
of normalized. Yeah. It's it's
data centric programming. We're coding
directly to the low levels
of WPF. Instead coming up
with a very small fluent
interface where I can say
these keys, call this command
and just pass in the
command type in a generic
behind the scenes. It's going
to container and getting the
object model. It's doing a
lot of stuff behind the
scenes. It's creating the same
input, binding command object, all
the stuff that was happening
in the XAML before the
difference is you have a
small place in the code
where you can see what
all of these things are
and see how they connect
directly to one another, taking
it farther, this small expression,
I can be a keyboard
shortcut. I can have it
show up in a dynamically
created menu and maybe even
a button bar across the
top, but expressed one place
and one small area of
the code. Is there something
that just now, or is
this a theory that you've
come, this is in the
storyteller code base. Oh, really?
So the story to our
code base that I can
poke around and it's a
version right now That will
be checked in by the
time you dear listeners receive
this podcast. Very cool. So
that's cool. Cause I actually
did a podcast earlier with
Ian Griffith about WPF and
we were talking about stuff.
So now I've got a
little thing there that I
can use, but talk to
me about what a fluent
interface would look like. I
know that we're doing this
in audio, so people can't
see the code, but this
really is almost a sentence.
Maybe explain like a structure
map, example, like one line
of code and walk me
through what a typical fluent
structure map conventional thing would
look like and what that
would really expand out to
if I had to do
it again. So actually can
I start from the XML
first? Okay. Whatever makes you
happy. So Scott inferred earlier
that the XML configuration or
structure map early on was
terrible, except he said it
politely, politely. It was terrible.
Okay. You would have to
express that it's okay to
pull types from this assembly.
So there's a note that
says assembly this name. Then
I would say, I have
a plugin family of classes
that plug into this interface.
There's another XML node. Then
I might say this concrete
class can be plugged into
this interface at this point.
You've already lost me. Yeah.
We're four or five deep
into an arrow of an
arrow shaped XML file. Okay.
Now that you're, you're, you're
horrified. We'll move on to
VFI approach today to do
that same kind of thing
in the trunk of storyteller.
I always say if I
approach the fluent phone interface,
so in the fluent interface
approach, I would simply say
if I have an
interface and it has one
class that I want to
be plugged in as the
default, I Fu that's Fu
classic food food example. Okay.
I would say four and
use generic angle brackets. The
word for, for angle brackets.
I Fu okay. Close your
print. Open and close parentheses
dot use angle brackets, foo
foo use Fu. Yeah. And
instead of spaces in your
English there, you're using angle
brackets and parentheses, but for
all intents, it's an English
sentence. It's a declaration. Yes.
The classic Martin Fowler described
fluid interface. Yes. Now do
do be careful. We have
experimented and I was guilty
with this trying too hard
to make it look like
a sentence. So it reads
for requested type. I Fu
the default co.is dot of
concrete. Yeah. That's it, it's
interesting that you say that
because talking about being polite
versus being real, some of
the initial examples that I'd
seen your blog when you
were just kind of exploring
that and, and others who
have made similar interfaces, when
I see, you know, for.is.dot,
I'm like, okay, come on.
He is really even his
object, It's his expression interface.
So you know what I'm
saying? Yeah. We tried this
experiment first. I would say
that we have some internal
DSLs that I can show
to my product manager and
he can actually say, yeah,
that's right. That's wrong. And
your non technical, non programmer,
non technical people, but we're
developers. We, we can read
code instead. I found really
adopting it from jQuery, January
style code going for a
much more terse infrastructure. And
that means I'm ditching the,
for and with and the
ans and trying to make
it as tight as possible
so far. I think I'm
liking that approach, but it
may be just because we
use so much jQuery now
That is really interesting. Let's
get a bit of a
tangent, but the idea that
looking at jQuery in the
way of jQuery expresses itself
is just somehow UN you
know, not really quantifiably, but,
but you know, clearly such
a comfortable least comfortable to
right. Thing that we would
look to the JavaScript library
that we use a lot
and apply that to code
that we're writing somewhere else
and C sharp versus good.
And it's, it's, it's interesting.
Cause it's funny. Cause jQuery
still has that magic language,
the selector language inside of
its string where, you know,
part of it's fluent until
you get into a string
and then you pass stuff
in, when you're creating a
fluent interface for, for structure
map. Have you found times
when you, rather than trying
to string objects together, you
really just end up with
some tiny DSL on a
string or if you don't
Got that far yet. So
that's, that's a good, that's
a, that's something to think
about. I would say I
have not done any kind
of interpretation. There are some
places I do that a
lot for setting up test
data. Yeah. There are other
tricks besides method training and
she can find all of
this on Martin Fowler's website.
There is a book there's
a section called the DSL
work in progress. And he
talks a lot about different
design patterns for creating internal
domain specific languages. The book
that Martin has been writing
for going on three years
now, and he's been doing
it in progress. He's basically
writing this book and putting
it up his notes really,
as he writes it and
you can watch it. Yeah.
Right. The book. But the
point is there are other
tricks, very useful tricks. Besides
method chaining method, chaining gets
kind of nasty to implement.
When you get past a
few things you can use
'em you can use object.
Initializers much like the way
the Ruby guys kind of
idiomatically pass around dictionaries as
a way to kind of
create more readable. Do you
think that this is a
little bit of a tangent?
Do you think that C
sharp four and the dynamic
and the IVD, the diamond
dynamic keyword and the ability
to not use IntelliSense and
instead figure out a method
at runtime would make a
fluid interface, easier to write,
Maybe easier to read and
consume. Yeah, probably not usually.
Right. Since you wouldn't have
IntelliSense, But that's, that's the
point to me, this is
a tangent, but at that
point, I think you just
need to reach for iron
Ruby or iron Python Really
rather than using, C-sharp kind
of attempt to get denim
dynamicism Yes. Ruby, if you're
trying to create a DSL,
an internal DSL Ruby is,
is going to be far
more readable because that's one
of the interesting stuff in
the code. So Somebody who
writes C-sharp for a living
myself and yourself, it'll be
interesting to see if we
start doing convention over configuration
and fluid interfaces and DSLs
to drive our C-sharp applications.
If, if, if Ruby iron
Ruby in this case becomes
the defacto way to do
it. I know that that
Orrin, that I end day
uses a BU as his
kind of primary DSL. And
he's been pushing it for
years. And has that caught
on beyond just Warren himself?
Maybe not so much in
the dotnet camp. I think
it's much more common maybe
in, in the Java camp
where they've had alternative languages
longer than us. Right? So
the same kind of things
we see the Java guys
doing have maybe the hardcore
domain and anything that's performance
intensive or infrastructure being in
Java and the business rules
and the glue code moving
up into more dynamic languages
like groovy or Jay Ruby,
where, where there's much more
terse syntax, and you can
create more readable code. We
may be doing the same
kind of things. You and
I were having an interesting
discussion earlier about doing a
doing except as testing. And
you had mentioned a tool
that a lot of Ruby
guys use called cucumber. And
I had seen, we talked
about fit and fitness and
uncle Bob Martin is here
at the, at the top,
trying to figure out how
to do this. And a
guy had given him one
of my old bosses actually
had given me a demo
of cucumber and he showed
how he could write what
looked like English. And that
was the convention that he
passed onto the suits that
lived in his company. And
then he showed me the
other side, which were the
tests. And then after he
showed me kind of the,
the wonderful English he'd written,
then that his suits worked
on and the wonderful test
he'd written. And I was
like, wow, this is amazing.
This is wait a second.
How does this fit together?
And then he like, well
here, let me open this
text file full of regular
expressions. And then suddenly things
stopped being so magical and
stop being kind of disgusting.
And he's like, well, yeah,
we really haven't got an
answer for that. This file
uses regular expressions to read
English and map it to
these tests right here. Do
convention over configuration systems necessarily
have to have something disgusting
in the middle or is
it just really, it can,
it, can it be very,
very basic? Like the example
I said of, if you
name your gifts this way,
it'll just work. Or if
you name your interfaces, that
will just work. How often
is there black magic, like
buried somewhere that we don't
want to talk about, I
guess is my question. I
think it's all black magic,
right? It may be simpler
some regular expressions. If you're
going to build this yourself,
or I think for you
to understand how these are
usually implemented, there's usually something
where the Fowler calls the
semantic model directly underneath say,
we're working on fluent in
hibernate and we're building our
own conventions. Say for us,
we have a convention that
determines the mini to mini
table mappings names, many to
many relationships, right? It's very
important. You always want the
names, the exact same way
under the hood. It's altering
a property on a many
to many table map property.
There's actually a class. You
are. Can you give me
a concrete example Called the
mini mini table map? I
believe, but say our convention
is you take, if you're
relating one class to another
class and take the two
class names, you make sure
that you put it in
alphabetical order so that the
name would be identical going
from a to B or
B to a okay. And
that first name to second
name is how we determine
our mini mini table mapping.
That's setting a property of
a class inside of fluent
and hibernate. And that's the
very last minute, this semantic
model, this, this whole object
graph of how things are
mapped from class to table
property. The column name that
at the last minute is
used to configure and hibernate
itself. Internally. If you ever
decide to build one of
these things yourself, you build
a semantic model that actually
performs the runtime activity. You
test that very well. You
layer conventions or a DSL
on top of the semantic
model, your conventions are altering
this, this runtime object graph
or your DSL is writing
to this semantic model. Okay,
this might be a stretch,
but because I'm doing multiple
podcasts in a day here,
I'm starting to attach things
that I've talked to. In
previous shows, we talked to
Ian about why I was
running into problems with my
application. I had my view
and I thought I had
a view model, but it
was really just a bunch
of sloppy code that was
talking to my view. I
needed multiple layers and I
really just had one big
ball of a mess. I
didn't really have a view
model. You're describing the semantic
model I started when you
were saying semantic model, I
started thinking about view models
versus models. You're saying to,
to really have that layer,
that is that, that object
graph that shows your intent
effectively and separating that out
from where that intent was
sourced from where it came
from, came out of configuration,
or it came out of
a fluent model or it
came out of convention. Yes.
It's just interesting that, you
know, all his problems in
computer science can be solved
by one additional layer of
abstraction, whether it be adding
a view model to a
previously cluttered view or adding
a semantic model to your
semantics. So that's absolutely true.
If you want to think
of it this way, the
Symantec model, you can build
any way that's easiest for
you to make it in
WPF WPF. We don't really
have much of a separation.
What you see in XAML
is pretty well, a serialized
copy of the raw semantic
model that the controls, the
tree, the DSL or conventions,
it's just putting icing on
the cake. Or if you
have to say it it's
lipstick on the pig, it's
trying to create an API
that's friendly for the user
where I can be very
concerned about what's best for
the user. That just simply
helps configure the things that
work it's isolating the user
from the mechanics, so that
I can use to build
the mechanics in a way
that's easy for me as
a developer and still provide
a good experience for the
developers using it. And that
might be the essence of
why this isn't obvious to
the average Joe is using
either whether it be WPF
as the example, or using
a system. And she's sharp
is that there's nothing in
the tooling. There's nothing in
the language that enforces this.
There's nothing in WPF. When
I go file new WPF
application, that forces me to
have a view model. And
you know, there's even now
in, in, in fluent, in
hibernate, I'm an instructor. I'm
sure I could probably shoot
myself in the foot if
I wasn't using these fluid
interfaces correctly. Right? I mean,
do they prevent, they don't
prevent me from expressing myself
incorrectly. That's absolutely right. If
I do my job well
as an API designer and
things are consistent and I
fail fast, if I can,
I have to try to
detect when you do something
wrong and fail fast and
tell you where and why
you did something wrong. And
I have to be consistent
all the way through. That
was a part of another
one of my talks. I
did a lessons learned, talk
from structure, map development, and
I outlined where I've gotten
in trouble and my structure
map API from inconsistencies or
making a developer do what
seems like the exact same
task instruction map configuring. When
you try to override construct
your arguments explicitly, you do
strings and numbers and primitive
types one way, but for
dependencies, non primitive types, you
do it another way. And
that confuses structure, map users.
It's something I get in
trouble with right now. I
know as the developer of
this tool, that a structure,
my handles primitives and non
primitives differently. So I made
the API reflect that, but
the user shouldn't have to
know that I should make
the API. Exactly. That's the
kind of mistake you can
make with ESL KPIs. Interesting.
Well, cool. Well, thank you
so much for sitting down
with me today and explaining
this stuff to me. And
I suppose the people will
be able to shoot your
talk online at some point.
So I'll put links up
to the NDC conference talk
as well as your blogging.
And you're also on Twitter.
Yes. All right. Well, this
has been another episode of
Hansel minutes this week talking
with Jeremy Miller and I'll see
you again next week.